🔐 CORS (Cross-Origin Resource Sharing)
1️⃣ What is CORS and why is it needed?

Answer:

CORS is a browser security mechanism that allows or restricts web applications running on one origin from accessing resources on another origin.

Origin = protocol + domain + port

Enforced by browser, not server.

Without CORS, browsers block cross-origin requests due to Same-Origin Policy (SOP).

2️⃣ What happens in a CORS preflight request?

Answer:

For non-simple requests (e.g., PUT, DELETE, custom headers), browser sends:

OPTIONS /api/resource
Origin: https://example.com
Access-Control-Request-Method: PUT
Access-Control-Request-Headers: Authorization


Server must respond with:

Access-Control-Allow-Origin
Access-Control-Allow-Methods
Access-Control-Allow-Headers


If allowed → browser sends actual request.

3️⃣ What is a "simple request" in CORS?

A request is simple if:

Method = GET, POST, HEAD

Content-Type = text/plain, application/x-www-form-urlencoded, multipart/form-data

No custom headers

Simple requests skip preflight.

4️⃣ Why should you NOT use Access-Control-Allow-Origin: * in production?

Because:

It allows any domain to access APIs.

Dangerous when cookies or Authorization headers are involved.

You cannot use * with Access-Control-Allow-Credentials: true.

Best practice:

Access-Control-Allow-Origin: https://trusted-domain.com

5️⃣ Is CORS a security feature for servers?

No.

CORS protects users, not servers.

Attackers using curl/Postman are not restricted.
Only browsers enforce CORS.

🔐 CSRF (Cross-Site Request Forgery)
6️⃣ What is CSRF?

CSRF is an attack where a malicious website tricks a logged-in user’s browser into making unintended requests.

Example:
User logged into banking app → visits malicious site → malicious site triggers money transfer.

7️⃣ Why are JWT-based APIs usually not vulnerable to CSRF?

Because:

CSRF relies on automatic cookie sending

JWT stored in Authorization header

Browser does NOT automatically attach Authorization header

Therefore → no CSRF risk (if not stored in cookie)

8️⃣ Why are cookie-based session apps vulnerable to CSRF?

Because:

Browser automatically sends session cookies

Server trusts cookie

Malicious site can trigger POST request

9️⃣ How do CSRF tokens work?

Server generates unique token per session.

Flow:

Server sends token in HTML form.

Client submits form with token.

Server validates token matches session.

If mismatch → reject.

🔟 What is SameSite cookie attribute?

It restricts cross-site cookie sending.

Types:

Strict → only same-site

Lax → safe methods allowed

None → cross-site allowed (must use HTTPS)

Best practice:

Set-Cookie: sessionId=abc; SameSite=Strict; Secure; HttpOnly

🔥 Advanced CORS + CSRF Questions
11️⃣ If you disable CSRF in Spring Security, when is it safe?

Safe when:

Stateless REST API

Using JWT in Authorization header

No session cookies used

Unsafe when:

Using session-based authentication

12️⃣ Difference between CSRF and XSS?
CSRF	XSS
Tricks user browser	Injects malicious JS
Exploits trust in cookies	Exploits trust in input
No script execution needed	Script execution required
13️⃣ How can XSS lead to CSRF bypass?

If attacker injects JS via XSS:

JS can read CSRF token

Send valid forged request

Therefore → prevent XSS to protect CSRF.

14️⃣ Why is CORS not protection against CSRF?

Because:

CSRF does not need to read response.

It only needs to send request.

Browser will send cookies even if CORS blocks response.

15️⃣ What is Double Submit Cookie Pattern?

Instead of server session:

Server sends CSRF token as cookie.

Client sends same token in header.

Server compares both.

If equal → valid.

🚀 Very Advanced / Architecture-Level Questions
16️⃣ How do you secure a SPA + Spring Boot backend?

Best practice:

Use JWT in Authorization header

Disable CSRF

Enable CORS only for frontend domain

Use HTTPS

Set HttpOnly cookies if using refresh token

17️⃣ Why is storing JWT in localStorage dangerous?

Because:

Vulnerable to XSS

JS can read and steal token

Better:

Store access token in memory

Store refresh token in HttpOnly cookie

18️⃣ What happens if Access-Control-Allow-Credentials is true?

Then:

Browser sends cookies

Cannot use * origin

Must specify exact origin

19️⃣ How would you debug a CORS issue in production?

Steps:

Check browser DevTools → Network tab

Check preflight OPTIONS request

Verify response headers

Confirm origin matches allowed origin

Check proxy/load balancer config

20️⃣ Why is CSRF protection unnecessary for pure REST APIs?

Because REST APIs should be:

Stateless

No cookies

Use Authorization header

CSRF attack requires cookies.

🎯 Bonus: Real Senior-Level Question
If CORS is enabled incorrectly with * and credentials, what happens?

Browser blocks the response entirely.

Because:

Access-Control-Allow-Origin: *
Access-Control-Allow-Credentials: true


❌ Invalid combination.
